Welcome back.
And in this lesson we're going to be discussing get element by ID.
Previously we saw how you can traverse through the dorm and it get it could get fairly lengthy and the
whole idea is when you're trying to interact with your h m himself code that you want to be able to
properly select the elements that you want to manipulate.
So it's all about the selection process.
And we've used this one before multiple times where we're actually outputting content and we're making
use of that by doing the document get element by id and this by far is the most popular way of selecting
DOM elements.
And we've seen this before where we can simply grab the element that we want to make use of and then
pull that into our dorm.
So I'm going to just update that and I'm going to crowd in other elements.
So you know I usually like to have device there for the output.
So we've got our div we've got our output and now we're all ready to go.
We're linked to that element and we're ready to manipulate that element.
And another great thing about the dorm is that you don't actually have to memorize all of those paths.
It simply just makes sense.
And you can just simply open up your browser and within the console itself it's going to be suggesting
the different paths the different methods that are available to traverse through the dam.
So you've got a lot of help here and just as long as you understand the relationship the higher here
aeration ship then you should be able to really easily select elements that you want.
So we've used get element by ID.
So there's a number of different ways in order to make selections.
So let's say for instance we want to grab an element by we want to grab all of these divs here.
So we want to grab all of the elements that have a tag team of div so we can do that the same way.
So let's set that up and we can do div.
So we'll call it our div list because this is going to grab all the elements that have divs and no document
get.
And this is important the way that.
So we've got to get elements by tag name.
So notice that it doesn't say element it says Get elements by tag name.
So this is an important distinction.
And then everything else still looks the same.
But when we go back out and if we refresh that content so we know that if we do output we get that particular
element but no notice that within the H.M. We've got multiple divs that have the tag name of Div.
So what happens if I list out div we see we've got actually eight items that are being returned.
So now we have an option.
So if we wanted to select a particular one we can simply select it.
At this point now as well.
So just as we were traversing through we can maneuver through the div list so we can do this now div
lists.
And because they've got IDs and we've got a way to identify them.
We can maneuver to any one of those.
So this really jumps through and fast fasttrack source to be able to select out the proper elements
so we can bring out and we can distinguish between all of the elements on that page and simply pull
back the divs and then if we want to select a particular one we don't have to worry about where they're
located.
We can just use the ID value and we could also do when they appear on the page.
So the first one that we have is output then another then one two three four or five all the way to
6.
So 6 is the last one that gets opened up and created here within the page.
And that's why it's the last one here.
So if we know the order that they're being represented now we can grab that first one and we can actually
update the value.
So that's what I want you to do now to pause the video and instead of using GET elements by id use GET
elements like tag Neme and update some of the content here in output.
Say hello.
Welcome to my page and pause the video and try it out and I'll show you the solution coming up so earlier
we saw how we can go through and we can pick out all of the dibs and it comes out within a list here
where we've got all of the divs listed.
We can also just like any other array.
We've got the length of the number of divs so we can loop through them if we want to as well.
So this is important to remember because this can this object can be treated the same way as an array
because we've got a length and notice as well that the first one starts with 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7.
So if we want to update the inner h to him model of that particular element we can select it the same
way that we would select any other item within an array.
And we can do inner h t M-L so selecting that in our h t amount and we need it to update the message.
So let's go ahead and do that.
And the message was welcome to my Web site so there we go snow.
We go back and we refresh the page.
Now the contents of this particular element are welcome to my website.
So I've got another challenge for you now.
So we've already hooked up this button here and we can see that actually I should update this type button
but it's not actually a button as of yet until we set that type.
So what I want you to do now within this challenge this is the second part.
I want you to we saw that we can grab div list and we saw that div list had a length.
So what I want to do is I want to output all of the inner h t m l the inner text that's contained within
every div on my page and I want to output that within the city of up here within the output area.
But I want to skip that first one because I don't want to grab any text from there.
I simply want to use that as an output.
So go ahead and open up your editor and try that out and I'll show you the solution coming up so hope
you had an opportunity to try that.
We're able to list all of the contents of the various divs and let me show you how to do that.
So we know that the first one here is output.
So that was one of the cues here that so we've got a function called my fun.
So let's set that up and we're going to get this function to trigger out and put all of the content
within that output element.
So we know that we have a length.
And when we have a length we know that we can utilize it within a loop.
So let's set up a loop so you use X as a default variable and we're going to loop through while the
length of div list.
So while x is less than the length of div list and we're going to incremented and so this gives us the
ability to output that content.
And another thing important to note that we know that starts out with zero so this would be the first
one.
So if we want to skip it we can simply start up 1 and then we can loop through and output that content.
So Nexen was in order to output that content into the inner h all of that first element.
So we've already kind of done that over here.
And what I'm going to do I'm going to set up a local variable.
I'm going to just call it H2 mental and div list.
We'll call it div list and put a line break there at the end of it.
So let's as we're looping through we're going to concatenate to h t m l to the h l variable and we know
that we're able to get back the value of the inner aged him out there.
So let's use X as a variable.
And now let's do enter and maybe you can do inner text.
So to simplify it so get rid of all of that.
H t m l.
So that's it.
So now we know we loop through.
And lastly we need to output that content.
So this one was what we did over here where we can just use div list 0.
And we could output that inner h to M-L output to it.
So let's go ahead and try it out.
So that when I click it we see that we get all of those elements listed there and let's add in a line
break so that we can distinguish between all the different elements.
So let's go back and refresh it again.
So we click it and we see that we've got our div list.
So maybe this one can even be a heading or something like that for it so it actually gets distinguished
stands out from the rest of the elements.
So each one.
So let's try that one more time and click it.
So we've got our list.
So notice that the first one is a parent.
So where listing out all of the contents that are contained within there.
So it's got that parent and then we've got all of the contents there.
And then next we hit the next step of the next one.
The next one the next one the next one and something happened here because we're not actually picking
that one up.
And that's because when we look at the length of it so let's go back out here and we'll give a list
length.
We see that the length is eight.
So it's starting at 1.
So we're looping through.
So initially we're at 1 so this is one two three four five six and we've got a length of 8 and that's
because this value here it's not test six.
It's actually welcome to my Web site because this one actually fired off before we ran the function
so it already updated that text.
So it actually grabs that dynamically updated text and hits number 7 and then next round it would be
8.
So it's no longer true this statement and it breaks out of the loop.
And then we output that H to him.
So that's what happened there.
If you're wondering why we're not seeing sex and we're seeing Welcome to my Web site so one more challenge
before we conclude.
So we looked at and we saw that this particular div has a whole bunch of children within it and that
actually distinguishes it from the other six divs that don't actually have any children within it.
They don't have any child elements.
They have children.
They have a child node but they don't have a child element.
So now what I want you to do lastly is to pause the video and add a condition within our loop that checks
to see if this particular div that we're looking at has a child.
So if it's got any child elements and if it does then we know that we don't want to output it.
So we only want to output to test 1 2 3 4 5 and then welcome to my Web site.
We only want to output these values.
We don't want to grab this one that's got the parent and it's got a bunch of divs nested in it.
So go ahead and try that out and I'll give you a hint that it is a condition and we do need to look
at what we looked at previously when we were traverses through the dorm elements that were able to actually
distinguish this one.
But this is the only one that's actually going to have a first child element.
So go ahead try that it and I'll give you the solution.
So the solution is to add in a condition so we know we can grab that elements and we can say div IList
and we're going to do first child element.
So what's going to happen now is that this condition is actually going to check to see if it's actually
true or not.
So if it has a first child element it will output it within our within our loop and if it doesn't then
it's not going outputted.
So basically we see that we get this output here.
So this is the parent.
So we know that when we're doing conditions if we do that the explanation mark then that reverses it.
So now we should list out all of the divs that don't have any children.
So again it's going in to the device looking out what's unique within them and then properly selecting
out the device that you want to make use of within your code and I'll give you another hint as well.
So there's a number of ways to do this.
So this was just one solution.
There's other ways to do this as well where you can look at and you can see what's actually distinct
about the various elements and then make that selection.
So what I want you to do now is to challenge yourself and create another type of condition where you're
able to select out only a few of these elements or only able to select out ones that actually have children.
So go ahead and try that out for yourself.
And familiar style.
Familiarize yourself even more with what you can do within the dorm.